See discussions, st ats, and author pr ofiles f or this public ation at : https://www .researchgate.ne t/public ation/351082272
Role of Artiﬁcial Intelligence in Education
Article  · Sept ember 2020
CITATIONS
19READS
46,234
1 author:
Kandula Neha
BVRIT Hy derabad Instit ute of Engineering f or Women
13 PUBLICA TIONS    46 CITATIONS    
SEE PROFILE
All c ontent f ollo wing this p age was uplo aded b y Kandula Neha  on 24 April 2021.
The user has r equest ed enhanc ement of the do wnlo aded file.Role of Artificial Intelligence in Education  
Kandula Neha  
Assistant Professor, Dept of Artificial Intelligence,  
Vidya Jyothi Institute of Technology, Aziz Nagar, Hyderabad -75 
nehak.ai@vjit.ac.in  
 
Abstract  : The contribution of computer science (AI) within  the field of education has 
invariably been important. From robotic teaching to the event of an automatic system for 
answer sheet analysis, AI has invariably helped each the lecturers and also the students. 
during this research we've got done  thorough ana lysis of the assorted analysis developments 
that were applied across the world like computer science techniques applied to education 
sector thus on summarize and highlight the role of AI in teaching and student’s analysis. Our 
study shows that AI is that t he backbone of all the information science enabled intelligent 
tutor systems. These systems helps in developing qualities like self reflection, responsive 
deep queries, partitioning conflict statements, generating artistic queries, and choice -making 
skills . 
Introduction  
Artificial Intelligence (AI) is present in our lives and is progressing with efficiency in modern 
times. the start of AI are often derived to the 1956 Dartmouth summer scientif ic research on 
computer science. Today, AI work is performed in p olice investigation cancer, reducing the 
danger of plane collisions, and developing autonomous vehicles, etc. AI -equipped robots 
have outperformed human surgeons in stitching up cuts; acting search and rescuing missions; 
providing take care of kids, senior s, and hospital patients; aiding master  card firms with fraud 
detection . 
AI technology has been applied to education within the recent twenty years. The Intelligent 
Tutoring Systems (ITS) cowl all major AI topics (e.g., data illustration, machine learning,  
tongue, planning, reasoning, explanation), and therefore the systems has shaped a motivating 
test-bed to formalize psychological feature theories and to experiment with their 
operationalization. AI in education has been applied to numerous domains, like p hysics, 
programming, writing essays, and reading yet because the development of educational 
systems. the foremost typical AI applications within the academic field involve data 
illustration, intelligent tutoring, tongue process, and autonomous agents. AI i n education has 
created powerful learning environments and positive interactive experiences for college 
students over the decades.  
The fast advancement of technology, like computer science (A I) and artificial intelligence has 
compact all indus tries, togeth er with education.  A recent report from IBM, Burning Glass and 
Business education Forum shows that the quantity of job opportunities for knowledge and 
analytics skills can increase b y 364,000 to 2,720,000 in 2020.  which means that the gap 
between offer an d demand of individuals with AI skills is growing, with one report showing a Alochana Chakra Journal
Volume IX, Issue IX, September/2020ISSN NO:2231-3990
Page No:305worldwide base of three hundred,000 AI professionals, however with se veral opportunities 
obtainable,  and this gap is leading to even higher salaries for those during this field.  
Artificial intelligence is changing the teaching -learning process in education!  
Since the origin of the establishment of education, the strategies of teaching and also the bond 
shared between learners and educators have evolved considerably. Teaching strate gies across 
the world became additional structured to administer higher, additional efficient results. This 
transformation will be majorly attributed to the continued intervention of technology.  
On the rear of continuous technological advancement, we tend to square measure witnessing 
a paradigm shift within the teaching -learning method. the connection between educators and 
students is dynamical, wherever educators became additional approachable and far higher at 
understanding their students’ views.  
Technolo gy has created learning additional cooperative, as academics and students square 
measure operating in bicycle -built-for-two to realize higher outcomes.  
 
Img Source : https://thedatascientist.com/general -ai/ 
How AI is currently being used in Education  
" Microsoft and McKinsey’s recent report of over 2,000 students and 2,000 teachers from 
Canada, Singapore, the UK, and America shows that artificial intelligence (AI) is already 
providing teachers and schools with innovative ways to understand how their stud ents are 
progressing, as well as allowing for a fast, personalised, targeted duration of content."  
Roles of Artificial Intelligence in education  
1. AI can automate  basic  activities  in education,  like grading.  
Alochana Chakra Journal
Volume IX, Issue IX, September/2020ISSN NO:2231-3990
Page No:306While AI might not ever be ready to actually replace human grading, it’s obtaining pretty 
shut. It’s currently potential for academics to alter grading for nearly every kind of multiple 
alternative and fill -in-the-blank testing and automatic grading of student writing might not be 
so much behind..  
2.  Students  could  get additional  support  from  AI tutors.  
These  programs  will teach  students  fundamentals,  however  up to now aren’t  ideal  for serving  
to students  learn  high-order  thinking  and creative  thinking,  one thing  that real-world  lecturers  
square  meas ure still needed  to facilitate.  nonetheless  that shouldn’t  rule out the likelihood  of 
AI tutors  having  the ability  to try to these  items  within  the future.   
3.  AI-driven  programs  can give students  and educators  helpful  feedback.  
AI cannot  solely  facilitate  academics  and students  to craft courses  that are bespoke  to their 
wants,  however  it may give feedback  to each concerning  the success  of the course  as an 
entire.  These  sorts  of AI systems  enable  students  to urge the support  they have  and for 
professors  to search  out areas  wherever  they'll  improve  instruction .  
4. It could  change  the role of teachers.  
There will always be  a job  for teachers in education, but what that role is and what it entails 
may change  because of  new technology  within the  type of intelligent computing systems. As 
we’ve already discussed, AI can take over tasks like grading, can help students improve 
learning,  and should  even be a substitute for real -world tutoring.  
5. Data  powered  by AI can change  how schools  find, teach,  and support  students.  
Smart data gathering, powered by intelligent computer systems, is already making changes to 
how colleges interact with prospective and current students. From recruiting to helping 
students choose  the foremost effective  courses, intelligen t computer systems are helping 
make every  a neighbourhood  of the faculty  experience more closel y tailored to student needs 
&goals.  
Latest Application s of Artificial Intelligence recent trends  real world.  
There are various fields where AI has an impacted on  it 
1. AI in Marketing : Customer data is been used with the help of Machine learning to 
predict a persons actions and helps for easy segmentation for the marketers.  
 
2. AI in Banking : Fast growing approach where many banks are using the AI driven 
techniques to  detect fraud of credit cards, detect anomalies and provide Customer 
support via Electronic Virtual Assistant.  
 
3. AI in Finance  : DS uses this approach to detect patterns in market in very short span 
of time. These machines keep a view on past data patterns  and predict future insights 
of the data.  Alochana Chakra Journal
Volume IX, Issue IX, September/2020ISSN NO:2231-3990
Page No:3074. AI in Agriculture  : Use of some automation approach it helps farmers for the better 
yield of their crops and also to protect them from weeds.  
 
5. AI in Healthcare  : It uses complex algorithms to detects and emulate co mplicated 
human conditions and provide medication in advance.  
 
6. AI in Gaming  : for generation of  adaptive and intelligent behaviour for Players.  
 
7. AI In Space Exploration  : AI and ML is the best way to handle and process data in 
this scale. This AI is been used for NASA'S  next  Mission Mars 2020.  
 
8. AI in Autonomous Vehicles  : AI System collects data from the vehicles radar, 
cameras, GPS, and cloud services to produce control signals that operate the vehicle.  
 
9. AI in Chat Bots  : Virtual Assistance are been wi dely used in every house today, such 
as Siri, Alexa, Cotona. It can be used to control devices in house, Book Cabs, Order 
Food etc.  
 
10. AI in Artificial Creativity  : Artificial Creativity such as Social Platforms like 
Facebook. AI uses Machine learning and Deep Learning algorithm techniques for 
Face detections and Automatic Tagging, design feed based on our intrest, detect hate 
speech and Negative Content.  
 
AI and Future Workforce  
The World Economic Forum estimates that, by 2022, an outsized proportion of firms can 
have adopted technologies like machine learning, and thus powerfully encourages 
governments and education to concentrate on apace raising education and skills, with 
attention on each STEM (science, technology, engi neering and mathematics) and non -
cognitive soft skills, so as to fu ll fill this close at hand want.  Microsoft’s recent study shows 
that, by 2030, students can have to be compelled to have down pat 2 sides of this new wo rld 
by the time they graduate:  
 Know h ow to employ changing technology, such as AI, to their advantage  
 Understand a way to work with people during a team to drawback solve effectively  
Preparing students to figure aboard AI within the future will be gin early. As most youngsters 
are snug with di gital technology by the time they're of faculty age, teaching them the abilities 
they’ll have to be compelled to thrive du ring a digital work is vital. Add the inclusion of AI 
in education, and also the force of the longer term are going to be higher ready  to face the 
unknown challenges of the work of tomorrow.  
 
 Alochana Chakra Journal
Volume IX, Issue IX, September/2020ISSN NO:2231-3990
Page No:308References :  
1) Using AI to Augment humans and redesign operations, Rehan Khan, BT contact 
consulting, Jan 2019.  
2)  A White paper on the future of artificial Intelligence, Helmut Linde, Immanuel Schweizer, 
July 2019.  
 
3) The role of education in AI (and vice versa)’. Retrieved from Mc Kinsey,  Kirkland, R. 
Apr 2018 . 
 
4) Business Insider Nederland, Consumer -goods giant Unilever has been hiring employees 
using brain games and artificial intelligence  – and it’s a huge success, 2017  
  
5) Artificial intelligence and its scope in different areas with special reference to the field of 
education. Retrieved from Educational Journal, Verma, M. (Jan, 2018).  
 
6) The Role of Big Data and Artificial Intelligence in Education and Education Research: A 
Literature Mapping . 
 Alochana Chakra Journal
Volume IX, Issue IX, September/2020ISSN NO:2231-3990
Page No:309
View publication stats